# Dynamic color - Material Design 3

> Source: https://m3.material.io/styles/color/dynamic/user-generated-source

link
 
Copy link Link copied
 
User-generated color comes from an Android user's personal wallpaper. The wallpaper is digitally analyzed, a single color is selected as the source color, and tones are chosen and assigned to each color role.
 
With a dynamic user-generated color scheme, end-users see
 
Their apps and system UI change to a color pulled from their device wallpaper
 
A product that looks personalized
 
link
 
Copy link Link copied
 
Dynamic color in a work app
 
Dynamic color in a work app
 
Dynamic color in a work app
 
link
 
Copy link Link copied
 
## Design with user-generated color
 
link
 
Copy link Link copied
 
Because the final colors will be dynamically generated on each user's personal device, it's more important to understand and apply the system's color roles Color roles are assigned to UI elements based on emphasis, container type, and relationship with other elements. This ensures proper contrast and usage in any color scheme. [More on color roles](/m3/pages/color-roles) in your designs rather than use a particular hex value.
 
The easiest way to do this is by using a color scheme generated by the Material Theme Builder Material Theme Builder (MTB) is a Figma plugin that allows markers to emulate the color extraction process for dynamic color and create custom tonal schemes. [Get the MTB](https://www.figma.com/community/plugin/1034969338659738588/material-theme-builder) and focus on applying the color roles to your designs instead of particular hex values. Then you can use the Material Theme Builder to test how well the design functions across potential user-generated color options.
 
link
 
Copy link Link copied
 
### Use Material color roles in new design files
 
First, get the color roles by creating a new theme with the Material Theme Builder
 
Open your Figma file. Select the Resources button in the Figma toolbar
 
Find the [Material Theme Builder plugin](https://www.figma.com/community/plugin/1034969338659738588/material-theme-builder) and select Run . This will open a plugin dialog showing the default color scheme, including Core colors and Extended colors.
 
Open the plugin's Settings (gear icon at lower right of dialog) and select the checkboxes for both New theme color diagram and Generate State Layers . This will create a handy visualization of your branded color scheme and also generate state layers essential for designing interactions. [Learn more about state layers](/m3/pages/interaction-states/state-layers)
 
Navigate out of settings
 
Open the Current Theme dropdown at the top of the dialog and select + ADD NEW THEME
 
Give your theme a short name (this name will become the prefix of your color roles in Figma)
 
Select ADD THEME
 
With Custom selected, select Primary . This opens a dialog prompting you to select a custom source color.
 
Enter the Hex value for a color and hit Apply . This will generate a full color scheme.
 
With the Current Theme dropdown at the top of the dialog, select your theme
 
Select the frames or components in your file and then hit Swap in the bottom right of the dialog. This will automatically update the colors for any M3 Design Kit components.
 
### Apply color roles to an existing file or M3 Design Kit components
 
First, get the color roles into your file
 
Copy your preferred scheme's color diagram from your [Material Theme Builder](https://www.figma.com/community/plugin/1034969338659738588/material-theme-builder) file and paste it into your file (this makes the color roles available in the Design panel on the right of the screen as part of your local styles)
 
Swap colors in M3 Design Kit components for your preferred colors
 
Select the Resources button in the Figma toolbar.
 
Find the [Material Theme Builder plugin](https://www.figma.com/community/plugin/1034969338659738588/material-theme-builder) and select Run . This will open a plugin dialog showing the default color scheme, including Core colors and Extended colors.
 
In the Current Theme dropdown at the top of the dialog, select your color scheme
 
Select the frames or M3 Design Kit components in your file that need a color update and then hit Swap in the bottom right of the dialog. This will automatically update their colors from baseline colors to your selected scheme colors
 
Then, update any remaining non-color-role-based colors
 
Manually change any hex values or non-color-role-based color styles by selecting all and looking through the Selection colors in the Design panel on the right of the screen
 
Any colors that don't start with your selected scheme name need to be replaced with a corresponding color role
 
Hover on a non-color-role-based color row in the Design panel and select the Style icon (four dots). This opens a selection dialog.
 
Search for your scheme name to see the color roles
 
Select the color-role-based color that most closely matches that color's use case (see [Color roles](/m3/pages/color-roles) for more information on what color to use where) and select Use style to apply it to the selected objects
 
Repeat until all non-color-role-based colors in the file have been replaced with color roles
 
### Try out how your designs will look with dynamic color
 
Select the Resources button in the Figma toolbar.
 
Find the [Material Theme Builder plugin](https://www.figma.com/community/plugin/1034969338659738588/material-theme-builder) and select Run . This will open a plugin dialog showing the default color scheme, including Core colors and Extended colors.
 
Select Dynamic
 
Add an image, or select the Shuffle icon to get a random source color
 
Select the frames or components in your file that you want to see with dynamic color and then hit Swap in the bottom right of the dialog. This will automatically update their colors to the user-generated dynamic colors.
 
Repeat with a range of colors to get a sense of how your product will appear across different users' devices
 
Need to make adjustments to the scheme? Check out [Advanced customizations](/m3/pages/advanced/overview)
 
link
 
Copy link Link copied
 
## Develop with user-generated color
 
link
 
Copy link Link copied
 
[MDC-Android – Color docs](https://github.com/material-components/material-components-android/blob/master/docs/theming/Color.md)
